So we got to just do a couple more parts,
really.
So A, navigation tip.
If you wanna go to your
previous session <prefix> -L,
if you're familiar with Vim, this is
identical to alternate file, right?
So if I go here, let's exit out of here
exit, exit, exit, exit, exit, exit,
there we go, <prefix> -L,
I just went back to tmp.
<prefix> -L,
I go back to that Ansible one.
And I can just go back and
forth, back and forth, right?
So it's identical to alternate file,
it's very, very useful.
So if I need to jump somewhere to do
something quickly, I can do that and
then ultimate session right
back to where I was and
continue on my kind of
my merry way right here.
But we do have a problem though,
we haven't really made this
thing easy to use yet.
Meaning that we have this cool script
that's just in a folder somewhere and
we want it to be useful.
So one thing that I did right away,
there's a lot of ways you
can kinda make this useful.
I put them in kind of,
I would guess, funny locations, but
I like the two locations I put mine.
A, I have mine in my init Vim,
I know this sounds weird,
I have it in VM-ware,
let's see, what is it?
Little f, no it's a <C- f>,
there, that one.
This one, I always know that if I'm using
Vim, I'm already in a tmux session,
I have already kind of made
this reality to myself.
Now remember, I also showed you
that if you create a new window,
you can pass a command into it.
So I have my sessionizer available in the
global path, meaning that it's available
in one of my paths and so therefore, it's
globally there, I can use it at any point.
So therefore, all I have to do is
tmux new window with this thing.
When that thing runs, it will then
create the fuzzy finder do all that and
then remember, new window creates new
window, so I'll actually leave Vim.
And it's right here, notice it's
right here, that's where we're at,
it actually left Vim and it's over here.
The moment I close this, it goes back, it
closes that window and goes back to Vim.
Very, very useful.
You could probably build something
actually somewhat similar in VS Code
that'll communicate to tmux.
I don't think it'd be very,
very hard, same with IntelliJ.
But it's just a different
kind of environment, but
this nonetheless allows
me to do it from Vim.
Now, the reason why I chose Vim
is because often I'm in Vim,
but also I chose one other location.
Let's see, I have it in my zsh profile.
And the reason why I have it in my zsh
profile is that if I'm not in Vim,
I'm in a terminal.
And so when I'm in a terminal,
if I press F, it's just gonna
have that fuzzy find happen right there,
I just use my shell to do this.
Now that I have my shell,
I can then do that and
then that will open up the new session.
So it didn't close my previous window, cuz
my previous window I was just using, so
just shows this right here.
So it's kind of my two ways, that's kinda
where I put it, that was my strategy for
making this very, very useful for me.
Zsh has a vi-mode option.
Nice, yes.
>> Sorry, did you just press F?
>> No, I pressed Ctrl+F.
>> Ctrl+F, okay.
>> Yeah, here, yeah, look, bindkey.
See, it's that thing.
It's Ctrl+F.
So I press Ctrl+F and I send literally
into this sessionizer with a new line, so
I just execute it, right?
That's all I'm doing, so technically,
if we're gonna be honest here,
I'm in the middle of doing this and then
I press Ctrl+F, not that useful, right?
That's probably not the best way I wanna
go, but nonetheless, it works very,
very well for me.
I know the edges, I'm fine with this.
I could technically created something
that was a little bit better.
I could have used tmux, but the problem
is, is that I'm not always in tmux, right?
Really right when I start, I'm not in
tmux, so I want to be able to just open up
a terminal, right, Ctrl+F, and
then go to work, whatever, right?
Work, tmp, boom,
I'm in exactly where I wanna be.
So I just wanted it available in zsh and
then I knew from there on out,
I'm gonna either be in a terminal or
in Vim, and so
that's kind of why I
chose where I chose it.
This is a little bit more
theory than practice, right?
I'm kind of giving you how
I thought about a problem,
not necessarily how you should do it.
Maybe you should use i3 to help you out.
You could use i3, Rofi window,
who knows what you could use?
There's a million ways you can
solve this problem, I'm just trying
to show you a way to solve this problem
and a way that I thought was pretty nice.
And that really makes the thing
super easy, but not only that,
remember this whole Ansible thing
we've been doing now for a while.
If you look inside my dotfiles,
when it calls stows and stows my dotfiles,
I have a folder called bin, which has
a folder called local, which has a folder
called bin, which has these three things
and one of them is this one right here.
So here's mine,
mine's a little bit bigger than yours.
But that's all it does,
it actually puts this into my,
what is it called, my local bin, right?
And so everything in here is
things that are available for
me to be able to execute right here.
So I have the Python formater right here.
It's just that I have my Python
language server, I have screenkey,
cheat sheet I have all
them all right here, so
I can easily use these anywhere within my
system and they install nicely for Ubuntu.
So that's kinda my general plan for using
those and that's how I've made it work
with stow, which is how I get
it installed via Ansible.
So I know the moment that I have Ansible
up and running, I can just use that,
that's kind of our first tmux script,
we actually did something there, right?
I feel like we genuinely accomplished
something that does kinda solve that
terminal problem, right?
In a sense, you have all these
terminals everywhere and
usually they're associated
with an individual project.
You can create windows for each one
of the things you need to run inside
of a folder and now you can navigate to
the folders you want with just three,
four keystrokes and you're there.
And you can fuzzy find for them,
makes it really, really easy.
To me this seems like a good
way to solve that problem.
It really allows you to be able to
move quickly, at least in my book,
this has been incredibly helpful,
for solving that problem.
Nonetheless, that's just how I go about
trying to solve these problems cuz really,
that terminal problem with all
the terminals, I mean, it's plagued me for
a long time.
I've tried so
many different ways to solve this and
it's been really hard coming
up with the right one.
I've tried many different styles,
I've tried many different ways to get this
done and this to me seems like one of the
best ways to really make it so that I have
a very seamless integration with me and
how I interact with my running processes.
Super easy to find, I really like it.
There's other ways you could do it,
just for fun, you know how we have tmux
list sessions, right now only have one.
If you have all of your sessions named,
you have all your windows named,
you create those, you could technically
pipe into FCF all the sessions,
get out the one you want to select, and
then use the targeting mechanism to target
that exact item in the session window and
pane.
So you could really get pretty fine
grain with how you want to do things.
I haven't done that yet,
I haven't needed it.
I don't really have a single project
that I run eight terminals in.
But I mean, there could come
a day where that is the case, and
I want to be able to jump
there pretty darn quick.